Broken PR. Will be deleted (#9924)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/dev/troubleshooting/performance/schemas/overloaded-shards.md

# Overloaded shards

> ## Description

Reviewer: I thought we've removed such headers from other articles? Let's make it consistent.

> [Data shards](../../../../concepts/glossary.md#data-shard) in {{ ydb-short-name }} might get overloaded for the following reasons:
> 
> * A table is created without the [AUTO_PARTITIONING_BY_LOAD](../../../../concepts/datamodel/table.md#AUTO_PARTITIONING_BY_LOAD) clause.
> 
>     In this case {{ ydb-short-name }} does not split overloaded shards. If a shard has to process too many queries, it will use up all its CPU resources and, consequently, query response times will increase.
> 
> * A table was created with the [AUTO_PARTITIONING_MAX_PARTITIONS_COUNT](../../../../concepts/datamodel/table.md#AUTO_PARTITIONING_MAX_PARTITIONS_COUNT) setting and has already reached the partition limit.
> 
> * Inefficient primary key that results in the imbalance of queries between shards. A typical example is ingestion with a monotonically increasing (autoincrementing) primary key that might overload the "last" partition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Data shards](../../../../concepts/glossary.md#data-shard) in {{ ydb-short-name }} may become overloaded for the following reasons:

* A table is created without the [AUTO_PARTITIONING_BY_LOAD](../../../../concepts/datamodel/table.md#AUTO_PARTITIONING_BY_LOAD) clause.

    In this case, {{ ydb-short-name }} does not split overloaded shards. If a shard has to process too many queries, it will consume all its CPU resources, leading to increased query response times.

* A table was created with the [AUTO_PARTITIONING_MAX_PARTITIONS_COUNT](../../../../concepts/datamodel/table.md#AUTO_PARTITIONING_MAX_PARTITIONS_COUNT) setting and has already reached its partition limit.

* An inefficient primary key that causes an imbalance in the distribution of queries across shards. A typical example is ingestion with a monotonically increasing primary key, which may overload the "last" partition. For example, this could occur with an autoincrementing primary key using the [serial](../../../../yql/reference/types/serial.md) data type.
```

## Diagnostics

{% include notitle [#](_includes/overloaded-shards-diagnostics.md) %}

> ## Recommendations for table configuration {#table-config}
> 
> Consider the following solutions to address the shard overload issue:
> 
> * If the problem table is not partitioned by load, enable partitioning by load.
> 
> * If the table has reached the maximum number of partitions, increase the partition limit.
> 
> ## Recommendations for the imbalanced primary key {#pk-recommendations}
> 
> Consider changing the primary key to evenly distribute the load between table partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Recommendations for table configuration {#table-config}

Consider the following solutions to address shard overload:

* If the problematic table is not partitioned by load, enable partitioning by load.

* If the table has reached the maximum number of partitions, increase the partition limit.

## Recommendations for the imbalanced primary key {#pk-recommendations}

Consider modifying the primary key to distribute the load evenly across table partitions.
```

> Consider changing the primary key to evenly distribute the load between table partitions.

Reviewer: We've discussed that the primary keys aren't that easy to change
